<table cellpadding="0" cellspacing="0">
  <tr>
    <td style="width: 100%">
      <span style="font-family: Tahoma; font-size: 25pt;">
        <strong>
                    Additional Materials for 20483</strong>
      </span>
      <span style="font-family: Tahoma; font-size: 10pt;">
        <br />(Updated:7/13/2022 9:50:01 PM)  -- Mark Walsh, AIICT 
                </span>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
<br />
<div style="width: 600px;         height: 64px; border-right: black thin solid; padding-right: 5px; border-top: black thin solid; padding-left: 5px; padding-bottom: 5px; border-left: black thin solid; padding-top: 5px; border-bottom: black thin solid;">
  <span style="font-family: Verdana">
              The examples in this folder <b><span style="color:red"> are additional
              materials provided by Mark Walsh (AIICT)</span></b>. 
            </span>
</div>
<br />
<div style="margin-left: 100px; width: 100px; margin-right: 100px; position: static;         width: 100%; border-left-color: LightGrey; border-right-style: solid; border-left-style: solid; border-right-color:LightGrey; padding-right: 10px; padding-left: 10px;">
  <h2>Module-01-Introduction ...... 
    </h2>
  <table>
    <tr>
      <td class="style3" />
      <td>
        <b>Title</b>
      </td>
      <td class="style2">
        <b>Description</b>
      </td>
    </tr>Demos<br /><br /><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">00-SimpleForEach</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">This is a simple example showing how a Foreach loop is better to write than a For loop in certain circumstances</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">1-StringVsStringBuilder</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">If you need to make many changes to a string variable then use the StringBuilder class. This application demonstrates the performance difference between a String and StringBuilder.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">2-RegularExpression</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">Using a regular expressiion to validate the format of an email address</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">3-ForEach</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">A simple example of a foreach loop that loops through an array. In this case the array is created by using the GetFiles function method of a Directory class.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">4-TryParse</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">The TryParse function included in many datatypes is a great way to validate user input for  correct data type.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">6-Recursion</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">You need to be able to recognise recursive code. While you might not often see it you need to be able to understand it.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">7-DataTypes</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">This example shows a few C# (.net framework) datatypes. It includes allocating variables that are Structures and variables based on classes</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">8-TypeMembers</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">This example shows a few C# (.net framework) datatypes. It includes allocating variables that are Structures and variables based on classes</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">9-Conversion</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">Implicit conversion (see line 18) and explicit conversion (see lines 20-22)</td></tr></table>
  <h2>Module-02-Creating Methods Exceptions Monitoring ...... 
    </h2>
  <table>
    <tr>
      <td class="style3" />
      <td>
        <b>Title</b>
      </td>
      <td class="style2">
        <b>Description</b>
      </td>
    </tr>Demos<br /><br /><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">00-Methods</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">A simple example of Methods and calling methods. You can single step through this to try some of the debugging tools in Visual Studio</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">00a-OverloadedMethods</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">When two methods have the same name but a different nunber of paramaters and/or different parameter types they are said to be overloaded . Can you work out why we have this concept? </td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">00b-OptionalParameters</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">An example here of methods with optional parameters and calling methods using "named arguments". In this case I wanted to pass a value for d but not for c (look in the code) </td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">00c-BasicExceptionObject</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">This example shows the basics of implementing exception handling </td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">00d-ThrowException</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">Sometimes you want to throw exceptions in your code because you have a situation where an application shouldn’t continue. In this case an invoice is being raised with a negative amount; that’s not allowed. </td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">01-Out-Parameter-WPF</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">An OUT parameter is similar to a return value from a method but it's defined in the parameters section. You don't pass a value when calling the method, instead you look at the value after the method has run. In this example I'm calling the TryParse method which returns true or false, the OUT parameter will have a value after the TryParse has been called.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">02-Out-Parameter</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">In this example I've written my own function that includes the out specifier for one of the parameters.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">02a-Overflow and Checked</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">In this example the 'checked' function is used to force an exception to be raised when overflow occurs.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">04-Logging-WPF</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">This is an example of an application that writes 'Log' entried two different ways. The first way is to write to the windows event log an the other way is to write to the file system.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">04-Tracing-WPF</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">This is an example of an application that writes 'Log' entries using a special mechanism that is part of the .net framework called 'trace listeners'. using this mechanism system operators can change the application configuration to increase or decrease the detail of the log entries. Additionally, they can log to other locations without having to change the application code.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">05-PerformanceCounters (Multi-Instance)</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">A multiple instance performance counter can be instatiated a number of times. This application creates a performance category group as well as a couple of performance counters. </td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">06-PerformanceCounters (Single-Instance)</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">A single instance performance counter is effectively shared across several applications. This application creates a performance category group as well as a couple of performance counters. </td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">07-TraceSourceDemo</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">Application showing the use of the TraceSource object. This object was introduced in .Net 2.0 and is a better choice than the TraceSwitch object you saw in an earlier demo.</td></tr></table>
  <h2>Module-03-Basic CSharp Constructs ...... 
    </h2>
  <table>
    <tr>
      <td class="style3" />
      <td>
        <b>Title</b>
      </td>
      <td class="style2">
        <b>Description</b>
      </td>
    </tr>Additional Slides<br /><br />Demos<br /><br /><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">00a-BasicEnums</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">This example I typed out in class. It's a very simple example of using enum. Using enum make code more readable and reduce the chances of errors.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">00b-CoffeeStruc</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">This example I typed out in class. A simple example of a struct that has constructors, fields and properties.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">00c-ArrayList</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">This example I typed out in class. I'd be avoiding ArrayLists these days because each element in the ArrayList is of type Object. There's nothing intrinsically bad about that but it can lead to compile time and run time errors if you're not careful. These days use generic lists instead.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">00d-ArrayListAndCasting</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">This example I typed out in class. Every element in an ArrayList has the data type object. When you retrieve an item from an arraylist it is returned as an object. That means you need to Cast (Convert) it to the Data type of the receiving variable. </td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">00e-Linq-Query</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">This example I typed out in class. A Linq query is not SQL but looks like it. It's a C# statement that allows us to query collections using an SQL like construct. </td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">00f-AnotherLinqExample</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">This example I typed out in class. No further description yet. A Linq query is not SQL but looks like it. It's a C# statement that allows us to query collections using an SQL like construct. </td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">00g-AbsoluteBasicsDelegate</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">This example I typed out in class.  A delegate is a data type that can point to a method. Here you have the most simple example of a delegate.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">00h-ListDictionary</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">This example I typed out in class. This is a simple example of using a datatype defined as part of the .Net Framework.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">00i-Hashtables</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">This example I typed out in class. HashTables are in-memory Key-Value stores.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">00j-UsingADelegate</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">This example I typed out in class.  The reason for implementing a delegate in this example is so the console application can get feedback while the ProcessFiles method is executing. </td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">00k-FromDelegatestoEvents</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">This example I typed out in class. Events extend the idea of delegates and make things easier for the caller of a struct or class.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">00m-WindowsFormsAppEvents</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">This example I typed out in class. No further description yet. I included this example to show how a delegate and event was used in practice. When the person at Microsoft defined the Button class they created it so it could call my method.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">00n-WpfAppEvents</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">This example I typed out in class. No further description yet. I included this example to show how a delegate and event was used in practice. When the person at Microsoft defined the Button class they created it so it could call my method.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">00p-AnotherInxexerExample</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2"></td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">00q-AnotherLinqExample</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2"></td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">1-Structure</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">A simple example of using a struct in this case to hold the details of a bank account. The example shows the use of private data and properties.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">2-BitArray with indexer</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">Example of 'bitarray' class that allows retrieval of an bit using an integer.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">3-What is an Indexer</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">Example of an company class that allows retrieval of an employee using an integer or a string.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">4-Indexers using a database</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">This example works with a database (Customer Database). This app uses integer based and string based subscripts to retireve customers from a database.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">5-SimpleLinqExpression</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">This example is a WPF Application that uses a Linq Expression to query over an array. In the case of this program the array represents the names of files in a folder. The Linq query finds all the files that have a user-specified string in their name.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">6-DelegatesBasics</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">This example shows the most basic idea of a delegate. It's a data type that can point to a function. In the case of this example the delegate can point to any function that accepts a single 'int' parameter and returns an 'int'.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">7-MyUtils-UsingDelegates</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">This is the example we looked at in class. Remember that the MyUtils functionality was created first. The delegate defines the signature of a callback function that programmers using the MyUtils application may choose to implement if they would like feedback.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">8-MyUtils-Events</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">This is the example we looked at in class. It takes the delegates example and changes it to use events. This results in a better experience for the programmer calling functions in the MyUtils Application.</td></tr></table>
  <h2>Module-04-Creating classes and Implementing Type-Safe Collections ...... 
    </h2>
  <table>
    <tr>
      <td class="style3" />
      <td>
        <b>Title</b>
      </td>
      <td class="style2">
        <b>Description</b>
      </td>
    </tr>Demos<br /><br /><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">00a-SimpleClass</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">A Very simple example of a class. In this case a BankAccount</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">00b-AccessModifiers</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">A Very simple example of a class. In this case a BankAccount. I've added comments about the access modifiers Public, Private, and Internal.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">00c-Constructors</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">Constructors are special methods which are called when the new operator runs. They are typically used to initialise the content of an object as it's created.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">00d-StaticClassMembers</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">Static methods and properties can be called without creating an instance of a class. This example has a simple example of static data and a static method.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">00e-BasicInterfaces</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">Interfaces are contracts. They describe a set of functionality that a class guarantees to implement. In this example there is an interface that two bank account classes implement which includes a deposit and withdraw function.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">00f-ASimpleGenericExample</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">A very simple Generic that swaps two values. Generics result in faster code, type-safe code.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">1-PassingReferenceTypes</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">Take care when you pass reference types byValue or byRef. A reference to an object is always passed to the called function so that means the called function has direct access to the object.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">2-Static Methods</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">Static methods can be called without creating an instance of a class. This example has a simple example of static data and a static method</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">3-UnitTests</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">This example has a class library that includes a function for validating an email. I've added a unit test project and written a few example unit tests. To run it find the 'Test Explorer Window' by using the Visual Studio menus, then do a full rebuild; you should see the test cases ready to be run.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">4-Interfaces</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">Interfaces are contracts. They describe a set of functionality that a class guarantees to implement. In this example there is an interface that two bank account classes implement which includes a deposit and withdraw function.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">4a-IComparable</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">If a class implements the interface IComparable then it can be used with the Sort method. In this example a town implements this interface to determine for a sort which town comes before another. This example does not use Generics</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">4b-IComparer</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">Similar to the IComparable interface IComparer is used in conjunction with a Sort method. In this example a cutom written class implements this interface to determine a sort order. This class could be used with 'Town' objects or any objects that derive from 'Town'. This example does not use generics.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">5-Generics demos</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">Various demos to explain the concept of generics. Generics were introduced in C# 2.0. The demos match the additional slides. To run the demo open the file program.cs and uncomment/comment each of the calls to a demo function.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">6-Generic Delegates</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">A simple application showing the use of Action&lt;T,T,T&gt; and Func&lt;T,T,T, out T&gt; </td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">7-IComparable</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">If a class implements the interface IComparable then it can be used with the Sort method. In this example a town implements this interface to determine for a sort which town comes before another. This example does use Generics</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">8-IComparer</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">Similar to the IComparable interface IComparer is used in conjunction with a Sort method. In this example a cutom written class implements this interface to determine a sort order. This class could be used with 'Town' objects or any objects that derive from 'Town'.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">9-Ienumerable</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">This simple console application includes a class called CustomerCollection that Implements IEnumerable&lt;T&gt; and IEnumerator&lt;T&gt;</td></tr></table>
  <h2>Module-05-Creating Class Hierarchies ...... 
    </h2>
  <table>
    <tr>
      <td class="style3" />
      <td>
        <b>Title</b>
      </td>
      <td class="style2">
        <b>Description</b>
      </td>
    </tr>Demos<br /><br /><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">00a-PetsClasses</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">This example explores the key concepts of creating a class hierarchy. There are a series of classes that describe a range of Pets. There is a matching diagram in the 'whiteboard diagrams for the course'.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">00b-CustomExceptionClass</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">If it's appropriate you might derive a class from a .Net Framework class. Why? because the .Net Framework class is almost what you want but not quite. By deriving your own class you can add the additional functionality that you want.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">00c-InheritFromGenericClass</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">This is an example of inheriting from a generic class. The main concept to note in this example that defining a custom class means that the coding for using that class is more simple and efficient than using the base class.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">00d-ExampleOfAnExtensionMethod</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2"></td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">1-PolyMorphism with bank accounts</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">Polymorphism exists when multiple classes exhibit the same interface and can be used interchangeably. In this example note that if we needed to add new bank accounts we would not need to change the code in the transfer function. It is closed for modification and open for extension.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">1a-BaseClassConstructors</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">This example shows constructors and calling base class constructors</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">2-MyStringExtension</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">In this example I've created an extension method for the String class. The method validates whether an email is OK.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">3-TheNEWkeyword</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">The C# 'new' keyword can be used to replace a function in a base class. This would be the case whether it was marked as virtual (i.e. overridable) or not. The 'new'keyword has an impact on polymorphism as you'd see by running this application. </td></tr></table>
  <h2>Module-06-Reading and Writing Local Data ...... 
    </h2>
  <table>
    <tr>
      <td class="style3" />
      <td>
        <b>Title</b>
      </td>
      <td class="style2">
        <b>Description</b>
      </td>
    </tr>Demos<br /><br /><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">00a-Files</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">A very simple console application that writes to a file.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">00b-Files</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">A very simple console application that uses a FileInfo class to work with a file.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">00c-Directory</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">A very simple console application that uses the System.IO.Directory class.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">1-Streams</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">StreamReader and StreamWriter classes are used to copy data from one file to another.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">2-NetContractSerializer</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">I've thrown this example to show that the course notes are incorrect in the section where serialization choices are discussed. If you followed the notes you would be led to believe that XML serialization is inferior to binary serialization because private data are not serialized. In this example I'm using a class called the NetContractSerializer which clearly serializes private data.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">3-BinarySerializer</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">Binary serializer without the ISerializable interface.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">4-XMLSerializer</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">The course notes suggest that you should use a SOAPFormatter to serialize an object to XML. That's fine if you want the XML format to be SOAP, but if you're just wanting plain old XML then you'd use the XMLSerializer as in this example. Something to keep in mind with this serializer is that by default it does not serialize private data.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">4a-SOAPSerializer</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">Binary serializer without the ISerializable interface.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">5-JSONSerializer</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">An example that uses the DataContractJsonSerializer. Does not use the ISerialize interface.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">6-Using-ISerializable</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">In this example I've used the ISerializable interface to control exactly how an object is serialized.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">7-Custom-IFormatter</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">With a class that implements IFormatter it's possible to control exactly how an object is serialized. The code is pretty close to that in the manual, I've just made a small change so that it doesn't crash when deserializing GUIDs.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">XXa-DrawRedLine</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">The purpose of this example was to show adding a reference to a dll  in the .Net framework. In this case to System.Drawing.Dll</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">XXb-UseNewtonsoftJson</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">The purpose of this example was to show adding a NuGet package. In this case to Newtonsoft.Json</td></tr></table>
  <h2>Module-07-Accessing a database ...... 
    </h2>
  <table>
    <tr>
      <td class="style3" />
      <td>
        <b>Title</b>
      </td>
      <td class="style2">
        <b>Description</b>
      </td>
    </tr>Additional Slides<br /><br />Demos<br /><br /><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">00a-TheDataReaderWay</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">Before we had the entity framework writing a C# application that performed CRUD operations on a database was cumbersome. Why? because we would need to write extensive amounts of code to move the data coming from a database into our C# conceptual schema (i.e. our C# classes). Relational database schema usually do not match the OO class structure we write in our code, so we'd have to write a whole heap of mapping code.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">00b-DatabaseFirst</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">In this example I've used the schoolDB database and created an entity model from it.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">00c-ModelFirstDesign</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">This example involved adding an entity model to an empty application, then adding 'entities' to the entity model. Once done i can then generate the DDL (Data definition Language) SQL to create the database tables that match my classes.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">00d-EDM-WithAdventureWorks</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">In this example I've used Microsoft's AdventureWorks database and created an entity model from it.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">00e-simplePartialClass</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">This is not an example of accessing a database or using the entity framework. It shows how partial classes work where some of a class defintion is in one file and other parts of the definition are in different files. Partial classes are important when tools are used to generate part of a class definition and we'd like to add to that definition.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">00f-EDM-WithAdventureWorksLinq</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">Linq (Language Integrated Query) allows us to write C# statements that work with collections of objects. Linq queries can be written using extension methods or by using the SQL-like linq expressions.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">00g-EDM-WithAdventureWorksLinq</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">An exmple of using a LINQ extension method to find the average price of all products</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">00h-ForceQueryExecution</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">An exmple of using a ToList() to force the execution of the Linq query on the statement where it is declared.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">00j-Simple linqToObjects</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">This example is a Windows Forms application that shows how to use both Extension methods and Linq query expressions to execute a query over an array.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">00k-linqToObjectsGrouping</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">Use both extension methods and query expressions to perform various types of grouping.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">00m-linqToObjectsJoins</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">Use both extension methods and query expressions to perform a join of two collections.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">00n-DefiningTheConceptualModelFirst</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">In this example I defined a conceptual model first and then generated a database from it. The conceptual model has inheritance and many-to-many relationships; something that relational databases don't support. Even so, the generated database works and maps to the conceptual schema.



</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">X-EF Code First example</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">EF Code first was introduced in EF 4.1. To build an EF Code first application use the NuGet Package manager to add the latest Entity Framework. The example I've written includes the use of Database.SetInitializer which was the way to update a database schema when the model changes in EF 4.1, basically it drops and re-creates the database. Since the release of EF 4.3 it's possible to perform 'database migrations'. To do this run 'Enable-Migrations' from the package manager console, change your classes (model), then run 'Add-Migration'. Lastly run 'Update-Database'. </td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">X-EG1-MapEntityToMultipleTables</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">Here is an example of defining an entity (Instructor) that maps to multiple tables (Person and OfficeAssigment) in the database and only exists
for some rows (it's assumed a person is an instructor if they have a non-null hire date).
You can find similar instructions of how to create and application like this here: http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/cc716698.aspx


</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">X-EG2-MappingMultipleTablesToAnEntity</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">A 2nd example of defining an entity (Customer) that maps to multiple tables (Customer and Store) 
in the adventureworks database. It also includes update functionality. This can be done because there 
is a 1 to 1 relationship between the customer and store tables.



</td></tr></table>
  <h2>Module-09-User Interface for Graphical Apps ...... 
    </h2>
  <table>
    <tr>
      <td class="style3" />
      <td>
        <b>Title</b>
      </td>
      <td class="style2">
        <b>Description</b>
      </td>
    </tr>Demos<br /><br /><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">00a-WPFApp</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">The purpose of this example was to create a basic WPF application that includes a few common user controls and also executes code based on user control events.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">00b-Layouts</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">A simple example showing a few of the layout panels.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">00c-userControl</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">When you're creating a WPF application and you find that certain parts of the user interface are repeated, that may be a good candidate for creating a user control. User controls can be written in Xaml and have C# code, they can have properties, methods, events and all the usual stuff a class has. Once defined they can be dragged onto the MainWindow.Xaml from the toolbox.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">00e-SimpleBinding</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">Databinding reduces the amount of C# code we need to write. It's all about connecting proprties of two or more objects together so that if the properties of one object change those properties can change in other objects. In this example the objects are User Controls; a button and a slider.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">00f-SolidColorBrushRes</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">An example here of defining a brush as a 'window' resource. The brush is then bound to multiple user controls on the UI.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">P01-Basic LayoutPanels</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">This example is an alternative to the that on the Microsoft Course CD.
It shows the 5 basic layout panels.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">P02-WPFApp</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">An example of a User Control. It's the same as the sample code in the course notes.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">P03-ElementToElementBinding</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">This example shows binding between elements. Specifically it uses 2-way binding.
</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">P04-SimpleDataBnding</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">This example shows binding an object to control properties.
</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">P05- BindingToACollection</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">An example of using DisplayMemberPath to bind a listbox to a collection of items.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">P06- BindingToACollectionUsingItemTemplates</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">An example of using a ListBox Item Template to bind a listbox to a collection of items.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">P07-DefiningStylesAsResources</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">An example of defining styles as recources and then using those resources in the XAML.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">P08-ControltemplateStyle</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">A very simple example of styling a button.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">P09-PropertyTriggers</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">Property triggers reduce the amount of C# code to write. In this example, fonts and colours of buttons and text boxes change as the mouse is moved over them and when buttons are pressed. </td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">P10-DynamicTransformations</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">Property triggers reduce the amount of C# code to write. In this example, storyboard animations are run to fade inamges in and out as the mouse moves over them. </td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">X04b-TwoWayBinding</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">This example shows binding an object to control properties. However, I've changed the properties of the object in memory so that they are dependency properties so that two way binding occurs. 
</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">X05b-Binding to Collections</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">In this program an observable collection of products is created from a dataset and
then bound to a listbox which displays model name. </td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">X05c-CollectionViewsSimple</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">In this example I've defined 2 collections. One is a normal
collection and one is derived from ObservableCollection.
The example then binds the Obeservablecollection to a 
list box and shows how to sort, group and use data templates. The
example will work equally well if a normal collection 
is used.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">X08a-MergedDictionaries</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">Application using global styles in WPF. Take a look at the 
App.Xaml file to see how merged Resource files can work.</td></tr></table>
  <h2>Module-10-ImprovingPerformance ...... 
    </h2>
  <table>
    <tr>
      <td class="style3" />
      <td>
        <b>Title</b>
      </td>
      <td class="style2">
        <b>Description</b>
      </td>
    </tr>Demos<br /><br /><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">00a-UsingDelegates</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">A simple application showing the use of Action&lt;T,T,T&gt; and Func&lt;T,T,T, out T&gt; </td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">00b-StartATask</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2"></td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">00c-StartATaskThatReturnsAValue</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2"></td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">00d-Exercise-StartATaskUseDelegateKeyword</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2"></td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">00e-Exercise-StartATask</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2"></td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">01-Starting Tasks</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">Tasks can be started in a number of ways. In this example Tasks are started with the Start() method, the Task.Factory.StartNew() method and the Task.Run() method. </td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">02-ReturnValuesFromTasks</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">This example shows how values may be returned from a task.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">03-CancellingTasks</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">This is a WPF application that counts the number of decendent files in a given path. The Application starts a Task to perform the calculation meaning that the UI is not frozen while the calculation is happening.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">04-ParallelInvoke</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">Parallel.Invoke is a method that can be used to run a number of actions simultaneously. It's an alternative to defining and starting Tasks.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">05-ParallelFor</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">An example of using a ParallelFor loop. It's interesting to run this by setting a breakpoint within the ParallelFor and then looking at the Threads and Parallel Tasks debug windows.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">06-ParallelForEach</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">An example of using a ParallelForEach loop. </td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">07-ParallelLinq</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">An example of using a Parallel Linq. </td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">08-Task Continuation</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">A simple example of a task continuing to another task and passing it's result.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">09-Nested Tasks</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">A simple example of Nested tasks.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">09-Nested Tasks-Parent-Child</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">A simple example of Nested tasks that uses AttachToParent.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">10a-SimpleWPFBeforeTasks</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">The issue with this application is the UI is frozen while the calculation is being made. That's because the Main Thread is being used for both the UI and the calculation.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">10b-SimpleWPFWithTask</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">This is a WPF application that determines the combined length of files in a given path. The Application starts a Task to perform the calculation meaning that the UI is not frozen while the calculation is happening.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">10c-UsingDispatcher</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">Worker threads cannot access controls that were created on the Main thread. Dispatcher.Invoke is required when calls must be marshalled from a worker thread to the Main thread. </td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">11-AsyncAwait</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">The purpose of this example is to demonstrate the async and await keywords.The avantage is that the asynchronous capabilities are written into the function being called from the WPF application; this makes writing the WPF application or any other application that calls the background utility much more simple.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">12-AsyncAwaitWithCallback</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">The purpose of this example is to demonstrate the async and await keywords using a custom callback function. The avantage is that the asynchronous capabilities are written into the function being called from the WPF application; this makes writing the WPF application or any other application that calls the background utility much more simple.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">13-TheNeedForSynchronisation</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">What we have here is a synchronosation issue. Run the application and press the button several times. Each time you press you'll get a different result and most of the time the result will not be corect.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">14-SynchronisationPrimatives</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">An example of using a ManualResetEventSlim object.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">15-SynchronisationPrimatives2</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">In this example I'm using a semaphore to ensure that a maximum of two tasks run simultaneously and a CountdownEvent to signal to the main thread that all three tasks are done.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">16-SynchronisationPrimatives3</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">A Barrier object is used in this example to have three tasks wait for user input from the console before proceeding and finishing.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF">17-ConcurrentCollections</td><td bgcolor="#D7FFFF" class="style2">When running this application imagine a coffee shop. It takes a customer 50ms to place an order and baristas 150ms to make the coffee. The coffee shop has been set up with three baristas. You'll see that the program uses a ConcurrentQueue so that multiple threads can access it simultaneously.</td></tr><tr><td class="style3" /><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB">X11b-AsyncAwaitAlt</td><td bgcolor="#EBEBEB" class="style2">This is a WPF application that determines the combined length of files in a given path. The Application starts a Task to perform the calculation meaning that the UI is not frozen while the calculation is happening.</td></tr></table>
</div>
<br />
<br />
<div style="width: 100%;         height: 34px; border-right: black thin solid; padding-right: 5px; border-top: black thin solid; padding-left: 5px; padding-bottom: 5px; border-left: black thin solid; padding-top: 5px; border-bottom: black thin solid;">
  <span style="font-family: Verdana">
          Mark Walsh (AIICT)  7/13/2022 9:50:01 PM</span>
</div>